# Recent_Increases_in_Incubation_Duration_in_NC
This repository houses the analysis code and other files relevant to the manuscript "Recent increases in male sea turtle hatchling production on a North Carolina, USA beach despite a warming climate".

Warming temperatures due to climate change may pose a threat to sea turtle populations through highly skewed hatchling sex ratios, reduced hatchling fitness, and heat-induced embryonic mortality. Beaches at the poleward limits of the nesting range have historically experienced cooler temperatures than their tropical counterparts, and thus have contributed a disproportionate percentage of male offspring to inwater populations relative to their nesting frequency. This has been the case on Bald Head Island, North Carolina, USA which is the densest loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta) nesting beach near the northern limit of nesting in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. However, a decreasing trend in incubation duration corresponding to increases in air temperature was reported from 1991 to 2015 (Reneker and Kamel 2016) - confirming previous model estimates proposed in 2007 (Hawkes et al.). Despite continued increases in air temperature, observed incubation durations since have trended longer, prompting an investigation as to possible causes. This work investigates the various contributions of environmental (e.g., air temperature, rainfall), behavioral (e.g., nesting phenology, along- and cross-shore nest site selection, nest elevation), and physiological (e.g., clutch size, maternal ID) variables to this increasing trend. Based on this data, both environmental (i.e., increased rainfall) and behavioral (i.e., alongshore nest placement, shift in nesting phenology) changes were required to counteract the increase in air temperature, meaning each variable in isolation may not be sufficient to mitigate climate change impacts here in North Carolina or at other sea turtle nesting beaches. Depending on the scale of projected changes in environmental conditions and innate abilities of sea turtle populations to adapt, management interventions may be required at high-risk beaches to manage the threat posed by climate change.
